# Safari RpIdHash

Simple, quick & dirty WebAuthn demo to illustrate an issue with Safari 16.0, 16.1 (and possibly earlier versions).

## The issue

There seems to be an issue with Apple's Safari browser implementation of WebAuthn.
When using a U2F (CTAP1) security key, the WebAuthn `navigator.credential.create` call returns an attestation object with a non-matching RP Id Hash.

### What is an RP ID Hash?

First, the Relying Party (RP) ID is an identifier for the site you are registering your FIDO credential.
By default, it is the domain name of the website the WebAuthn API calls originate from.
The rpIdHash is a 32 byte value containing the SHA-256 hash of this RP ID.

See the Webauthn spec's definition of <a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn-2/#relying-party-identifier">relying-party-identifier</a>:

### What is the problem?

The problem arises when the RP verifies the RpIdHash when for instance registering a new credential:
See the WebAuthn spec for the procedure for <a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn-2/#sctn-registering-a-new-credential">registering-a-new-credential</a>:

- 13 Verify that the rpIdHash in authData is the SHA-256 hash of the RP ID expected by the Relying Party.

### When does this problem occur?

Note that this issue only occurs with U2F (CTAP1) security keys.
When using a FIDO2 security key (CTAP2) the resulting RpIdHash is correct.
So to trigger this issue, use a U2F-only key like a YubiKey 4 or Google's Titan security key.
With a YubiKey 5, you can disable FIDO2 to enforce the use of CTAP1 using <a href="https://developers.yubico.com/yubikey-manager/">ykman</a>:

    ykman config usb --disable FIDO2

## Some obervations

Note that

- as stated above: the issue does not seem to occur with FIDO2 security keys.
- the issue is observed with Safari versions 16.0 and 16.1, and may possible be present on older versions as well.
- the issue is not observed with any other browsers I tested (Google Chrome, Miscrosoft Edge, Firefox and Brave).
- the issue is also not obverved with Mobile Safari (tested on iOS 16.1).
- in my tests I always see the RpIdHash value `a54672b222c4cf95e151ed8d4d3c767a6cc349435943794e884f3d023a8229fd` returned from the security key.
- some users have reported intermittend occurences of the issue.

## Running the demo

The simplest way to run the demo is to point your Safari browser to <a href="https://rpid.joostd.nl">rpid.joostd.nl</a> and click the `navigator.credential.create` button.

### Run locally

As the issue is with Safari, we only provide instructions for MacOS.

To run on your local system, simply clone this repository and run:

    python3 -m http.server 8000

### Testing a non-localhost RP ID

To test with other RP IDs, you will need to deploy on an HTTPS endpoint.
Several options exist.

#### Testing  using a reverse proxy

To test with an RP ID other than localhost, use a reverse proxy on an HTTPS endpoint that tunnels back to your localhost.
See <a href="https://github.com/anderspitman/awesome-tunneling">here</a> for some options.

As an example, install <a href="https://ngrok.com/">ngrok</a>:

    brew install ngrok

and run a reverse proxy using:

    ngrok http 8000

where the local port number should match your PHP server's listening port.
Then point your browser to the HTTPS URL generated by ngrok to run the demo through the reverse proxy on your local machine.
Note that by default *anyone* can connect to that URL so be careful and kill your tunnel immediately after testing.
